Hey, welcome back.
So I've decided to throw in a bonus topic in this course because I'm actually having a little too much
fun teaching you how to build this crud repository stuff.
So you are more than welcome to skip over the next lesson or two.
I don't know how many lessons I will break this topic down into, but I think this is going to be pretty
cool because what we're going to do here is to further improve the functionality of our credit repository
a little bit more.
OK.
So I got to thinking while I was looking through here and I was really enjoying what we did, but there
was at least one aspect of this people repository that didn't entirely completely sit well with me.
And that was the fact that in order to convey to the credit repository the sequel statements that we
need for the various functions, we had to pepper this class with these extra getter methods here to
get the Save sequel and get the whatever the other sequel you get, the find by ID and the Find All
in the Count sequel and so on and so forth.
That did not sit well with me because I know that there are frameworks that enable us to do this kind
of thing in a better way.
And so what we're going to do in this topic, however many lessons I decided to break it down into.
We're going to give our credit repository the ability to get the SQL queries without having to implement
these abstract methods.
OK.
And in so doing, you're going to learn another technique that I wasn't planning to teach in this course,
which is called the Java Reflection API.
The Reflection API is pretty much only used by frameworks, but it just so happens that as we are creating
this credit repository functionality, we are basically creating a poor man's framework.
So let's go a bit further down this rabbit hole and dig into the Reflection API a little bit.
OK.
All right.
So here's what I have in mind.
Basically, let me give you the big picture.
So instead of having to override and implement these various scatter methods here to return the sequel,
a more modern way of doing the equivalent to this with a lot of modern frameworks would be to actually
make use of an annotation so we could have an annotation so we could introduce and create our own annotation.
And in that annotation, we could specify the sequel that we want, and then our credit repository could
dynamically, at runtime, learn the skill that it needs from the annotation and thereby we would no
longer need these methods.
And if if most of what I just said didn't really mean much to you, that's OK.
It will, it will by the time we finish this, OK?
So that's what I have in mind, though, to teach you how to create your own custom annotations and
then how to use the Reflection API to find those annotations and read information that's in them so
that we don't need to implement these methods here.
And if we have time, we might even make one more annotation to show you one more bonus bonus thing,
but we'll see.
All right.
So how do we do this?
So let us still just do this in somewhat of a 2D style.
And I don't know.
You could argue whether or not this is new functionality, but I don't think I'm going to write an explicit
test for this functionality.
Instead, what we'll do is as we implement an annotation and some functionality, then I think we'll
just get rid of one of the getter methods and then rerun all of our tests.
And that's how we will confirm that we haven't broken any of the original functionality that was there.
OK.
So I propose that we introduce a new custom annotation called At School.
Like so and with this annotation, we can specify our school code.
Now there are a couple of ways that we could do this, and I'm inclined to keep this a little bit on
the simple side for right now.
So one way that we maybe could have done this is to simply embed the necessary skill right inside of
this annotation.
OK, so it'll actually look like this.
So what is this one here?
This is for sale, so we want the Safe Person sequel, so that is this bit right here.
So we would actually, for now, just embed.
Embed that.
Just like that.
All right.
So having already embedded this bit here, what we can do now is put our cursor right here on the sequel
and then let the Aideed create this annotation for us.
So I'm going to just do an option return.
And there we go.
There's the option to create the annotation called sequel, and it's asking where to to put it, what
package.
We want this.
And so I actually want to put this in in its own package will create a package called annotation instead
of repository.
This will be annotation.
OK.
All right.
And click OK.
And there we go.
Now, in order for this annotation to actually be useful for us for our purposes, we will need to put
an annotation on the annotation.
So I'm going to make a new line above this annotation, by the way.
Let me back up and say now.
So we're creating our own annotation now.
So the way that that is done is basically just to create an interface.
And that's why this is structured the way that it is public and then an at symbol interface sequence.
So it really.
So Java really is just using basically the interface apparatus to implement annotations itself.
OK.
All right, now, we will want these annotations to be visible to our application code while we're running
it.
And the easiest way to do that is to label this annotation with another annotation called retention.
Like so OK.
And then we can specify the scope that this annotation should be visible within.
And I know that probably isn't meaning much.
But bear with me for just a moment so we can refer to some values that are already defined.
If we refer to the retention policy class and we want to select now, I just typed R.
And because I'm inside of the retention annotation, the ADP understood that I was referring to R as
in retention policy.
And so that's how I got these options.
The pop up and the one that we want is runtime.
So when we start writing code using the Reflections API to dig in and find the usages of this SQL annotation,
this is where this runtime thing will come in handy.
Without it, our annotations wouldn't be found while we're running our application.
OK, so all right.
And then in order to be allowed to embed that sequel inside of our usage of the sanitation, we will
have to define and attribute inside of this annotation.
And let's pop back over to to how we were using this.
So right here.
So the way we're using this is to specify the annotation.
And then I would like us to be able to just throw our sequel query directly in here without any attribute
label.
And what do I mean by an attribute label?
Well, we can have comma separated attributes.
They're basically key value pairs inside of an annotation.
If that annotation supports that, and we're making the annotation so we can make it support whatever
we want.
But an example of what attributes would look like would be something like value equals blah blah blah.
And then we could have a comma.
And then you could say something like name equals Jake, and you could have lots and lots of attributes
associated with your annotation.
And then those attributes can be read at runtime using this Reflections API.
OK.
But it's also possible to specify a value for an annotation without having to explicitly name it.
And so I could actually get rid of this value equals part here like that and then just specify this
now.
Currently, since we haven't finished defining how this equal annotation should behave.
We're getting this red squiggly here, but we're going to go clear that up right now.
So if I jump back over to the sequel annotation here and I can declare a method of type string because
again, this this annotation is really just an interface and so on.
Interfaces, you declare methods, right?
So I will declare a method that is of type string, and the method name itself will simply be value.
OK.
So if I declare a method on my interface named value, then that attribute will become basically the
default attribute of the annotation such that I don't have to explicitly name that attribute value.
OK, so.
So again, let me just jump back over here.
OK, so notice now the red underscore the red squiggly error went away, and I don't have to explicitly
say value, though I can, I can prepend this with the value equals and that's equivalent still OK,
but I don't have to, because the SQL query is associated with the value, I don't have to explicitly
label it OK.
So that's optional.
All right, while we're at it, let me just show you real quick, even though we won't need it.
If you wanted to have additional attributes of this annotation, you could do that as well.
So you could have, you know, something like.
And.
Age, and you could even specify a default value for this, right?
So you can use this keyword default and then set an integer value right here.
I don't know.
30, for example.
OK.
And then you could use that over there.
Now we don't need this here, but that's how you could keep adding, you know, additional attributes
here.
Name default.
Frank, and so on and so forth.
OK.
All right, I'm going to get rid of those, though, because we don't need them.
All right.
So there's our custom annotation now.
The next step is where we do the real work and that is in teaching our credit repository class.
How to find this information here instead of having to call the get saved school method like it currently
is doing.
So let's pop over to the credit repository class now.
All right, so here's our save template, I guess.
And currently it is getting that sequel right here.
So what I'm thinking to do is let's create an alternative method right now that does this same thing,
but does it via the annotations, OK?
So for right now, I'll just well, we'll put this code up here.
Not because I wanted to live here, but because I kind of want to just, I don't know, keep my eye
on this code while we're writing the code to get the sequel, OK, so that we can kind of keep the context
in mind.
So let's pretend like we're going to have a new method called Let's see you and this one can be private
because it will.
It will not need to be shared anywhere and it will return a string.
And let's see, maybe we'll call it get save sequel by annotation?
Maybe.
For now, that's what we'll call it.
So let me also now take a moment to explain to you what the Reflections API really does.
So the Reflections API allows us to write Java code that allows us to analyze our Java code.
OK.
Let me let me explain what I mean by that.
First, let me jump back over to the people repository here, OK?
So we want to write some code in the credit repository that is capable of kind of basically seeing this
Java code here, like actually seeing this code?
OK?
Sort of kind of.
And what we wanted to do right now is to find a method called map for save.
And then we want this code to see if there is an at SQL annotation on this method map for save.
And if there is, grab this sequel string right here and use that SQL string.
That's what we want.
So the Java Reflections API allows us to analyze our own code in real time or at runtime, really?
OK?
So it's very meta.
It's very meta, in fact.
OK.
So that's what we're wanting to do.
So let's jump back over here to the credit repository.
So the way that we can do that is first, we have to reference this class, which is the repository
class at runtime to get into the Reflections API.
And so anytime you want to access a class of an object like this, this code will be running inside
of an object, right?
And so we can refer to that object using the this keyword.
OK.
And then if we want to get access to the class that that object comes from or as part of, then we can
call this to get class.
OK.
OK, so this get class method here actually returns something called a class.
All right.
And here know we'll just hover over it real quick and you can see, OK, so that read the get class
method actually returns a class.
So this is a java representation of a class file.
OK.
And so you can kind of think of it as the source code that we're looking at.
In fact, you can very much think of it as that.
That's what it's intended to essentially model.
OK.
And so when you think about what comprises a class, you know that classes have a name, they can have
fields, they can have methods.
Right?
So you can actually access all of those same concepts through this class class.
Sorry.
I hope I'm not going to confuse too many people here.
All right.
So let's see what methods are on the class class.
So we want to find a method on our class called map for save, right?
This guy right here, because that method is going to have our new annotation, the SQL annotation on
it.
OK.
And so we need to find that method on our class.
And so there are methods on the class class for finding methods.
There are methods on the class class for finding methods.
I'm sorry.
All right.
So there are a few, actually.
So there's get method that takes some inputs.
There's get methods and there's get declared methods also.
And right now, we want to work with the get declared methods.
OK, now I think maybe the easiest way to do this is going to be to use this version right here, get
declared methods that doesn't take any inputs.
OK, now that returns an array of method object.
OK.
So I think what we can do here, though, is to use the Streams API to iterate over those methods until
we find one that has the name that we're looking for.
OK.
So this is returning an array and I want to use the Streams API.
So can you think of how can we use the Streams API with an array so that we can basically convert an
array of objects into a stream of objects?
Can you think of how to do that?
OK.
Did you get it so we can use the arrays class and then it has a method on a called stream.
And so now we will have a stream of methods.
OK.
And so from here now, we want to find the method that has a name called Map for Save.
OK, that's what we want.
So I think what we can do here is use filter.
All right.
And then we're going to be passed in method objects.
So I'm going to refer to that as M..
OK, so I'm using a lambda expression here.
So then the method class itself will have other methods on it, and there should be a method called
get name.
And there it is.
OK, so now we just want to find the method whose name is map for save.
And so maybe what I will do here is just reference that name map.
For Save.
Dot content equals oops equals.
IMD get name.
OK, so hopefully that should iterate over all the methods on the class until it finds one whose name
is map for save.
OK.
And really, there should only be one.
And so if it finds one, there should only it should only find one.
Let me close that off.
OK?
All right.
So presumably then if we get this far, we will have found that method.
OK.
And so now we want to take that method and determine if there is an at scale annotation on that method.
And in fact, we want to really just convert the method into the at SQL annotation via the Streams API.
So any time we talk about converting in the Streams API, you know, we're really saying we want to
use the map function, right?
So let's do a map.
OK, so here we're still working with a method.
But now we want to basically query that method to determine, Hey, method, do you have an at skill
annotation on you?
And there's a method for doing that on the method class, OK?
So that would be import.
Get annotation.
And this method get annotation, takes a class as an input.
Now, don't get confused by the fact that it takes a class as an input.
It's really referring to the annotation class, OK, because essentially interms interfaces, classes,
records, they're all considered classes of a sort.
Right?
So we're going to call get annotation and then we're going to refer to our school class interface slash
annotation.
OK.
So I'm going to just reference that just like so now I do have to put the word class on the end here
so that Java knows what I'm talking about.
All right.
So basically, now we're asking the method object to find an annotation on itself of type sequel.
OK.
And if that exists, then that's going to be returned.
All right.
So now we would have a stream of SQL annotations.
And so this annotation will, which is an interface, will have a value method on it, right?
And so actually, I think we can just use a method reference here sequel colon colon value right there.
So if this class, which will end up actually not just being a credible repository, but it would actually,
in our case, be the people repository, which is a subclass of the Creed repository.
If this class, which will be the people, the people repository has a method on it called map for save.
And then if that method has an annotation called sequel and then if that if that annotation has a value,
you get that.
Get all of that, OK?
That's what we're doing here.
All right.
And then we just want to return that.
And so we can just do a fine first.
Now the find first method returns an optional, though.
OK, so this would be an optional of a string.
So if for some reason none of this worked out, we then need to figure out, well, what are we going
to do right?
Because this option will end up being empty in that case?
Right?
So if that is the case, we can actually now use the or else.
And what we can do here, I think, is simply reference the fallback of calling the Get Saved sequel
method.
OK, someone and just say Get Saved sequel.
And that's actually fairly elegant.
All right.
And so then I'm just going to put a giant return on top of all of that.
So in other words, we're saying, go find the sequel text that we're looking for via the annotation,
but if it's not there, then just fall back to what we already currently are doing.
OK.
All right.
So now let's change this to use our new method Get Saved sequel by annotation.
And let's also jump down here to this get saved sequel method.
And now I don't want this to be abstract anymore.
I don't want to force my subclasses to have to implement this method.
I want it to be optional.
So I'm going to remove this abstract keyword here, and that means I have to provide an implementation
now.
OK.
So for now, I'm just going to return a really terrible implementation of empty string like that.
All right.
So now let's jump back over to the people repository, and let's just comment this out and see if we
got it on the first try.
Honestly, I will be a little surprised that if we did.
But let's let's see.
All right.
So that's commented out.
We've got our sequel right here.
So then let's jump over to the tests for the people repository, and let's just run all the tests and
see what happens.
Wow.
It says that worked.
Now let's let's really test that out a little more, though, let's jump back over to the people repository.
And I want to intentionally break this in some way.
So let's change the table name, maybe two peoples.
This is something like that.
OK?
So this should break if we wrote a halfway decent test, which I hope we did.
All right.
So jump back over to our test run.
Run the tests again.
Hey, lots of stuff blew up.
Look at that.
Lots of stuff blew up.
I think our code must be actually must actually be working.
All right.
So let's jump back over here again.
Let's unbreak that and then let's run it one more time.
Looking good, looking very good.
And so now we don't even need that.
And so now we can use this at school method everywhere, basically.
OK, so let's see here.
Let's go to another one.
Here's map for update.
OK, so let's go find our update.
Sequel, which is right here.
It's grab all of that, and then let's come down here.
And let's add an APT sequel method and then paste that sequel there.
All right now, we're going to have to jump back over here to the credit repository, though, and teach
it how to utilize that right?
So let's see here.
So here's what we're doing currently to make this work right now.
Actually, I'm thinking we can generic size this method so that this one method can be used to find
the sequel for all of the underlying methods, essentially.
So the way we can do that is actually we can just parameter rise this method such that this bit here
gets passed in from the calling method, OK?
So with this selected here, just properly select that I'll do an option command p for parameter, right?
And we will call this method name and look at that that just passed that in there.
And so now we don't want this thing to be called so specifically get saved sequel by annotation.
We can just call it get sequel by annotation.
All right.
So I'm going to put my cursor right there and then do a shift six, and we'll just rename this to get
sequel by annotation.
And so now this can be used everywhere.
Oh, now there's one other issue this fall back here.
So ideally, we'd want to be able to pass this fall back in as well.
Right.
So we can do that really easily.
We could either pass in an actual method reference, in fact, or we could just pass in the result of
calling this actually passing in the method reference would be better.
So let's see something real quick here.
So currently, the or else method here is expecting a string, right?
But we could use the or else get.
And now this is a really good reason to use the or else get, in fact, OK.
So the or else get takes a supplier.
Right?
So let's see what happens here.
If we replace this with an or else get and then for the supplier, we will not pass in directly the
Get Saved sequel, which wouldn't work anyway, but will pass in a method reference to the Get Saved
sequel method and that should satisfy the supplier interface, which does which is an interface, a
functional interface that doesn't take any input anyway.
Right.
And neither does the Get Saved sequel.
So the way we should be able to do this is to reference the this object right, which would be this
current instance of the crud repository or of the people or of the people repository.
So this Colin Colon Get Safe sequel?
Look at that.
And so now in this current context right here, I would argue there's not really any benefit to doing
this.
However, the reason I did this is so that I can now parameter rise this also.
So watch this.
I will select all of that, and then I'll do an option command again to further parameter eyes like
so.
And I will call this parameter sequel getter.
OK, so you saw that little intermediate dialogue there.
So that was just warning about the fact that, you know, we're dealing with lambda expressions and
things, it really didn't matter.
At the end of the day, the A.D. did the right thing, which is to add in this additional parameter
here of our backup method call if for some reason the annotation isn't there.
OK.
All right.
So that all works.
So we we could jump back over to our test people, repository tests, and let's just run everything
again.
Make sure that's all still working.
We didn't break anything.
Yep, looks good.
All right.
OK, so the next one we need to do is the one for Map four update, right?
There it is.
Get Update sequel.
OK.
So we will replace this call with a call to get cycle by annotation.
And then it's going to take a method name, which is.
Map for update.
And then it'll also take a method reference to the Get Update sequel, right?
So we'll do a this.
Colin, Colin, there it is.
Update sequel.
And now we can get rid of this.
All right.
And so then let's jump back over to the people repository, and let's find the getter method for doing
the update and Will commented it out.
All right, so here it is.
All right, so let's comment that out and then I can actually just open back up this dialogue I just
did in the command for or alt four for Windows and Linux.
And then I can just click this, since this is the last thing we ran anyway to rewrite everything.
OK, so this one now that didn't quite work.
What's going on here, people repository.
What is it not happy with?
OK, people repository is not abstract and does not override abstract method.
Get updates Sequel in crud repository.
Oh, right, OK.
So we commented out this method, but I forgot in the crud repository class to change this method to
not be abstract anymore.
OK.
And so because it is abstract and the super class, it has to be overridden and implemented here, and
I'm not overwriting it or implementing it anymore because I just I just commentated it out.
So we need to jump back over to the credit repository and then go find the declaration for this method.
Let's see.
Get Update sequel.
And let's make it not abstract.
And we will make it return an empty string for now and probably forever.
All right.
And then we can jump back over.
OK, so very good.
So now back over here to the people repository class, the errors went away.
All right.
And now I'm pulling back up the tests again, and let's just see if we can rerun.
There we go.
It's all good.
All right.
And since that's all good, now I'm going to delete the commented out update method.
And let me I'm going to move this extract guy out of the way.
I don't want it there in the way of these mapper methods.
All right.
So let's jump back over here to the credit repository and see what else we need to refactor.
And now that we seem to have this guy working.
I want this method to be kind of somewhere below also, and I don't know, I think maybe somewhere around
in here.
OK, so we've updated the save.
Let's see how this fine by ID is working, so this method find by IED.
Oh, now we may we may run into something interesting here.
Find by IED gets its sequel from the Get Find by IEDs sequel method, which is abstract.
But interestingly, it uses this extract entity from results set method.
And I think we've got another method in here.
I think the Find all also uses this.
So that's kind of interesting because that means we've got one method in the people repository that's
being used by two different crud operations the find by ID and the Find All and each of these operations
needs its own separate and distinct sequel.
So that's going to be kind of interesting.
OK, so to solve this problem, I've got an idea, but I think we better cut it here and pick back up
from this point in the next lesson.
OK.
I've got a I think I've got a pretty good idea here, so I will see you in the next lesson and I think
we'll be able to wrap this up nicely.
See you there.